My name is Gregory Hughes and I work on
the OS X Accessibility Engineering team.
I'm really excited to have the
opportunity to be able to speak to
you today about accessibility on OS X.
Today we're going to talk about
how to make your applications,
your custom UI,
your really robust interfaces
accessible for all users.
There are three main
areas of today's talk.
We're going to start out
and talk about technologies.
This is going to cover some of
the assistive technologies that
Apple includes in all of our products,
and we're also going to talk a little
bit about why you might want to
include accessibility in your software.
We're then going to talk about the API.
This is the API that you're going to use
to make your software fully accessible.
It's a really rich and robust API.
It's incredibly powerful,
yet also easy to use.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly,
we're going to look at some
case studies of custom UI.
When doing research for this talk,
we looked at a lot of
different applications,
talked to a lot of different developers,
and we found that one of the places
that developers often get hung up is
making their custom UI accessible.
And so we wanted to go through
a few case studies of how you'd
approach completely custom UI and
custom drawing routines and making
them fully accessible to all users.
So, first I want to start
talking about technology.
And to start off,
I want to reflect on something that
Tim Cook said in yesterday's keynote.
Tim said, "The products that we make,
combined with the software you create,
can fundamentally change the world."
Those are really powerful words, right?
Fundamentally change the world.
Here at Apple, we truly believe that.
We truly believe that with your help,
we can change the world.
And part of that is by making
software and hardware fully
accessible for all users.
And this is so important to us.
We work so hard and spend so much
engineering time and resources in
creating really magical products
that we want everyone to be able
to pick up the same product,
experience the same sense of magic
and intrigue and exploration when
they use any of our products,
regardless of their
abilities or disabilities.
And so accessibility is
incredibly important to us.
We don't just talk about accessibility.
We deliver accessibility.
We have a ton of accessibility
features throughout the range of
our products to help users with
a varying degree of abilities.
On OS X and Mountain Lion,
we've continued to push the bar
and continued to implement various
accessibility features that are
going to really help our users.
And so accessibility allows you to turn
on or turn off various accessibility
features no matter where you are.
So if you're at the login window,
in Xcode,
or in a full-screen mail application,
you can enable or disable
accessibility features really,
really simply and easily.
So this is going to help our
users a lot in providing them
the functionality to get to the
features they need to very quickly.
Now,
we also have a lot of in-depth features,
of course, and so to help users get
to those more easily,
we've redesigned the
accessibility preference pane.
This new redesign helps users get to
features much more quickly and easily.
We've grouped things better and
provided more intuitive UI to customize
the various assistive technologies.
We've also continued to work really
hard with closed caption content
providers in creating as much content
as we can on the iTunes store.
And of course, closed caption content is
available for playback on the Mac,
on iTunes, on all iOS devices and iPods.
We've continued to push the
bar of accessibility on iOS.
As you heard yesterday,
we've introduced some great new
features like guided access.
We've done a lot of improvements
to VoiceOver as well in iOS 6.
One of those products on
iOS and OS X is VoiceOver.
It's a screen reading software
for users who are blind.
What a screen reader does is takes
the graphical user interface and
converts it into a spoken interface
for users who can't see the screen.
And primarily today I want to talk
about how we're going to make our
software accessible for this product.
I really want to focus on it
because it's one of the big
challenges of software design.
We spend so long working on
our graphical user interface,
our point and click interface,
dealing with mouse events,
that oftentimes it's easy to forget
about users who can't see the screen
or users who can't use the mouse.
It's also challenging because
sometimes some of these graphical
user interfaces are so mouse oriented
that it's difficult to think about how
someone might use it without a mouse.
And so we'll talk a bit more
about that in a little while.
VoiceOver now has been shipping
on the Mac for about six years.
: VoiceOver is also available on a
wide range of our other products.
VoiceOver is on OS X, on Apple TV,
on iOS, on the iPod Nano,
the iPod Shuffle, and the iPod Touch.
So this is really important.
The voiceover ships with these
products because someone who's
blind now can walk up to any Mac and
turn on voiceover and use it.
So this might not seem
important at first glance,
but what this means is that someone with
a disability now can walk into a public
library or walk into a school lab and
use the same computer as the rest of us.
Someone with a vision impairment
can walk into an Apple store,
pick up an iPad and feel the same
sense of magic as everyone else
that comes into an Apple store.
And this is what's so important to us,
this inclusive technology
that anyone can use.
As I said, on the Mac,
VoiceOver has been shipping for six
years and it's currently installed
on millions of Macs because it
ships for free with every Mac.
So our install base is enormous.
And it's also important to note
here that our install base is
larger than all of the other
competing screen readers combined.
And so by far,
we have the largest install base.
And this is really important
because you really get the most
bang for your buck making your
software accessible for VoiceOver.
compared to other products.
Now, VoiceOver also has a lot of
unparalleled features in the world
of screen reading technology.
For example, we have amazing plug and
play Braille support.
We support a huge list
of Braille displays,
both Bluetooth and USB.
And they don't require drivers or
sighted assistants to configure them.
You can just plug them in
and they work right away.
And so this is another thing
that's really important to us,
to be able to allow
users to be independent,
use the technology on their own without
requiring assistance from other users.
And we work really hard to continue to
create features like that and also create
a really collaborative environment,
as you'll see in a little while.
So those are some of the products.
A small sample of all of the
assistive technology that
we work hard here at Apple.
But you might be wondering yourself,
well, why is accessibility important?
Why do you want to implement
accessibility in your projects?
Well, as I talked about,
the first thing is access to everyone.
We work so hard on our software and our
hardware that we want to go that little
extra mile to make it fully accessible.
You work really hard creating these
amazing applications that provide
a lot of functionality to users.
In every case,
it's always worthwhile to do that
little extra 5% of effort to make
that software accessible to everyone,
regardless of their abilities.
Accessibility is also important because
it can help expand your user base.
And it can help expand your
user base by a huge amount.
In the U.S., there are 10 million
Americans with vision impairments,
31 million Americans with
hearing impairments,
and 12 million Americans with
learning disabilities.
When you add all of this up,
one in five people in the U.S.
has a disability.
That's 50 million Americans.
. Think about that for a second.
50 million Americans have a disability.
This is a huge audience for you.
So because of all the technologies
that we've included in every
single Mac that we sell,
every single iOS that we sell,
we've opened up an enormous
market for you to take advantage
of and for you to implement and
create wonderful software in.
The best case of this that we've
seen is the education market.
For students with disabilities,
this market has exploded.
And it's such a new market.
It's such a market that's available
for you to create new applications
and really take advantage of
the openness of the market.
and your ability to innovate.
So,
accessibility is also important because
some markets require accessibility.
For example, in the US,
a lot of government and education
markets require software that they
purchase to be fully accessible.
This is obviously a key thing.
If the market requires this,
you're going to need to implement it
in order to compete in that market.
And also, since the market requires this,
there aren't a lot of other competitors.
So it's a pretty easy market to compete
in if you implement your accessibility.
And finally, it's a great way to
gain a competitive edge.
The accessibility community is a
really vibrant and vocal community,
and we've seen a lot of applications
go viral just because the developer
spent a little bit of extra time and
made their application accessible.
So, it's a great way to really
increase your user base,
compete in new markets,
and provide access to everyone.
But how are you going to do this?
How are you going to
implement this accessibility?
Hopefully now I've convinced you
that it's the right thing to do,
that you're going to want to
do this for your projects.
I'm sure you're wondering
now how to do it.
Before we really dive into the API,
I thought first we'd take a look
at what the API actually does,
how the API works with VoiceOver.
And to do that,
I wanted to start with a demo.
So here I'm in Calculator.
I'm going to start VoiceOver by
pressing Command F5 and we'll
hear a short welcome message.
Welcome to VoiceOver.
VoiceOver speaks descriptions of items
on the screen and can be used to control
the computer using only your keyboard.
If you already know how to use VoiceOver,
press the V key now.
If you want to learn
how to use VoiceOver,
press the space bar now.
So this is the welcome
message for VoiceOver.
It's a great opportunity for
users if they accidentally turn
on VoiceOver to cancel out of it.
This is also a really good opportunity
to learn how to use VoiceOver.
Now, VoiceOver, as I said,
is for users who are blind.
And this class of users isn't
going to be using the mouse
to navigate the interface.
So in order to accommodate,
VoiceOver has a lot of custom keystrokes.
So if you've never used VoiceOver before,
I'd strongly,
strongly recommend that you go
through our tutorial to learn
how to use these keystrokes.
It'll walk you through some examples
and give you an opportunity to
practice with VoiceOver before you're
let loose in the OS with VoiceOver.
I happen to already know
how to use VoiceOver.
So as instructed,
I'm just going to hit the V key.
[Transcript missing]
So I'm now going to use some voiceover
commands and navigate around.
You'll hear various buttons and we'll
do some simple math in the calculator.
. Three button.
Press three button.
Six button.
Add button.
Press add button.
Six button.
Press, six button.
Add button.
Equals default button.
Press equals default button.
Nine.
So, by using Voice over here,
I was able to navigate around the app,
hear various buttons,
and also press on those buttons and
then finally get to the results.
So, the question now is how
is VoiceOver doing this?
How is VoiceOver getting
all of this information from
the calculator application?
VoiceOver off.
Well, Calculator is its own application.
It's running in its own process space.
VoiceOver is also its own application.
It's running in a completely
different process space.
VoiceOver is not running in
the same process space as all
of the other applications.
So there's obviously some kind
of communication going on here.
And between these two,
there's an IPC layer,
an interprocess communication layer,
that happens to use Mach messaging.
But you really don't need to worry about
that layer because we wrap it up really,
really nicely with the
NS Accessibility Protocol.
So we deal with all the packaging,
all the communication between the
application and VoiceOver or the
application and any assistive technology.
And you just need to adhere to the
NS Accessibility Protocol and we'll do
all the other heavy lifting for you.
So, what does that protocol look like?
What does it do?
The protocol provides a lot of things.
One thing that it provides are
things like the description.
In Calculator,
the description and the title of those
buttons were things like 6 or plus.
And with all standard Cocoa controls,
you're going to be able to provide that
information right in Interface Builder.
In Interface Builder here,
we're looking at the inspector,
and you can see you can provide
the accessibility description,
the help tag, the title element,
and the linked element.
So for all your standard Cocoa controls,
it's going to be really easy
to provide accessibility.
And we'll take a little bit
deeper look at that in a bit.
But the point here I want to make is
that you should always use standard
Cocoa controls whenever possible.
Now, I said in the beginning that we're
going to look at some custom UI,
and we wholeheartedly know
that it's not always possible.
But the first thing you always want to
think about when you have a piece of
UI is if you can use a Cocoa control,
you should.
Because you're going to be able
to take advantage of all the
accessibility work that we've done,
all of the event handling
work that we've done,
and really also take advantage of
any changes that come in the future.
So what if you're not using
a standard Cocoa control?
What if you have a custom control?
Well, we have a nice little
recipe for custom controls.
First thing you're going to want
to do is subclass appropriately.
So if you have something that
looks kind of like an NS Button,
behaves kind of like an NS Button,
but you have some little
slightly different functionality,
it's probably going to be best to inherit
right from NS Button and NS Button cell.
Part of the reason for this
is that we work really,
really hard to make your
job as easy as possible.
We want to do as much work as
we can so that you can make
your applications accessible.
Thank you.
In doing that,
we will provide a lot of accessibility
functionality on NS Button to begin with.
If you have something that behaves like
a button and you inherit from NS Button,
you will get a lot of our
accessibility work for free.
So after you've subclassed appropriately,
you're going to want to figure out
what accessibility attributes you
need to provide for your specific UI.
The way to do this is to look up the
Apple documentation accessibility
attributes and roles reference.
And here we're looking at the attributes
that we need to provide for a button.
This will tell us what attributes
are required and what attributes
are optional for a button.
For a button, there's about 10 attributes
that are required and one action
that you need to implement.
As we'll see later,
you don't need to implement all of these.
It's actually much, much more reasonable.
Another way to get to that information
is to use Accessibility Inspector.
Accessibility Inspector is a tool that
allows you to hover the mouse over
any piece of UI and it will show you
all the accessibility information.
This is a great tool for figuring
out which of the optional attributes
you might want to provide.
So the documentation will
tell you what's required.
The optional attributes you
can figure out by looking at
any other piece of UI that you
want to mimic and look at what
accessibility attributes it supports.
Accessibility Inspector is even
easier than ever to get to.
Right now you can just
click on the Xcode menu,
then click on Open Developer Tool and
Accessibility Inspector is
right in that menu.
So there are some great
WWDC talks in the past that go
into more depth on Accessibility
Inspector and how to use it,
so I'd strongly recommend looking
at those if you're more curious
about Accessibility Inspector.
So we've subclassed appropriately
and figured out what
attributes we need to support.
How do we actually support them now?
Well, to do that, we're going to use the
NS Accessibility Protocol.
This is the API that provides
the accessibility information
to any assistive technology.
There's really six key main parts.
First is ignored.
As we'll see in a little bit,
this is where a lot of
developers get hung up.
You want to make sure that your custom
UI is not ignored by accessibility.
Next, attributes.
Attributes are things like title,
description.
And for an attribute,
you're going to need to provide
which attributes you support,
a getter for those attributes,
and a setter for those attributes.
We then have parameterized attributes.
And these are attributes
that take a parameter.
For example,
string for range or line for index.
Just like attributes,
you're going to need to provide which
parameterized attributes you support,
and you're going to need to
provide a getter for those
parameterized attributes.
Actions are similar.
Actions are things like press, increment,
or decrement.
For an action,
you're going to need to provide which
actions are supported and the ability
for VoiceOver to perform those actions.
: Hit testing and focus
testing is really important,
but for the most part,
we're going to do all
of this work for you.
It's something to be aware of.
In some advanced cases,
you're going to need to implement these.
And again,
there have been some great past
WWDC talks on advanced accessibility,
which we'll talk more about these.
But hit testing and focus
testing help VoiceOver figure
out what's on the screen.
If your hit testing doesn't work,
then we can't figure out
what's under the mouse,
and things like accessibility
inspector also won't work.
Finally, notifications,
which are probably the most
advanced part of this API.
You rarely need them,
but notifications are for doing things
like informing voiceover when the focus
changes or the value of an item changes.
So, those are the six key parts.
How do we actually implement them?
Well, first accessibility is ignored.
As I said and I will say
multiple times again,
this is really important.
By default,
NSVue is ignored by accessibility.
So if you inherit from NSVue,
your view is going to be ignored
by accessibility and completely
skipped over by voiceover.
We do this because in a lot of
applications there are tons of NSVues.
We've seen 10 or even 100
NSVues deep just to get the
layout that a developer wants.
So we can't let a voiceover user
land on every single one of those
hundreds of empty NSVues or NSVues
that are just there for formatting.
So we ignore NSVue by default.
Then there are the attributes.
As I said,
you're going to need to provide
which attributes are supported.
You're going to do this with
accessibility attribute names.
And you're going to need to provide
a way for us to get at an attribute.
You're going to do that with
accessibility attribute value.
This takes in an attribute and
returns an object that represents
the value of that attribute.
Now, attributes are also settable.
So you're going to implement the
accessibility attribute is set-able
method and accessibility set value for
attribute method to allow VoiceOver to
set a specific attribute for your value,
for your object.
Now, parameterized attributes are
pretty much the same way.
You're going to report which
attributes you support by responding
to parameterized attribute name,
accessibility parameterized
attribute names.
And you're also going to provide
a way for us to get the value
for an attribute given a specific
parameter with accessibility
attribute value for parameter.
So this is where something like
range for line will take in a line
number and return NS range for that,
as we'll see in a minute.
Now, there are also actions.
Just like attributes,
you're going to need to provide
which actions are supported
with accessibility action names.
This is going to return
an array of action names.
For example,
things like AX Press or AX Increment.
Then you're going to need to provide
a way for us to get a description,
a human readable
description for an action.
It's accessibility action description.
And finally,
you're going to need to provide a
way for us to perform an action.
Accessibility perform action.
Finally, hit testing and focus testing.
As I said, one of the more advanced
parts of the protocol.
Given a point,
you would return an object that
represents the accessibility
object at that point.
Assuming you're inheriting from NSVU,
we're going to do most
of this work for you.
Same thing with accessibility
focused UI element.
This is the element that
currently has keyboard focus.
So it's really,
really important that both of
these behave correctly in order
for voiceover to work correctly.
Lastly, we have the notifications.
And posting notifications is
something you will do with the value
changes or you need to do something
special with keyboard focus.
But again, for the most part,
we're going to deal entirely
with notifications for you.
It's just something to be aware of.
It's one of those pretty
advanced parts of the protocol,
which you can learn more about in the
past advanced accessibility talks.
So we're going through our recipe again.
First thing we've done is
subclassed appropriately.
We've figured out what
attributes we need.
We've figured out what NS accessibility
protocols we need to implement.
One key part of this is
to always call super.
As I said, we work really hard to make
your lives as easy as possible.
We want to do the hit
testing for you when we can.
We want to do the focus testing.
We want to report the bounds
and the position on screen
of every object that we can.
So you need to allow us to do that,
and always call super for any
attributes that you don't handle.
And we'll see lots of examples of this.
But accessibility is ignored,
and forgetting to call super
are two of the biggest problems
I've seen developers run into.
And they're really,
really simple things to fix
once you know about them.
Finally,
we're going to want to test our results.
We're going to want to
look at our application,
look at it with voiceover,
and see how well it behaves with all
of the new accessibility information.
So, let's look at a few case studies now.
Let's look at some custom
UI that does its own drawing,
its own event handling,
and how we might make them accessible.
There are four pieces of UI that
I wanted to look at today.
First, a pretty simple button.
It does its own custom drawing,
it's going to have its
own highlight state,
and do some other special things that we
couldn't get with a standard NS button.
Then, a custom text area,
a static text field.
This might be used in something
like a greeting card application
or a presentation application where
you can't use the standard NS text
field or NS text view and you
want to do your own text layout.
Then we're going to look at a multi-line,
multi-column text field.
This is the same case as before.
We want to do our own text layout,
use our own text rendering engine.
: We are still trying to
make it accessible for users
with visual impairments.
Finally,
we're going to look at a custom stepper.
Now, in this case, from our HI team,
they wanted a stepper
with a specific look,
a specific animation,
and our engineering team decided the
best way to do that is with OpenGL.
So, in this case,
we're going to actually look at how
you would make something that's drawn
entirely in OpenGL fully accessible.
We're going to look at this
today with our sample app called
Accessibility UI Examples.
This app is available for download and
you can look at all the source code,
so don't worry about feverishly
writing anything down.
So let's take a quick look at that now.
So here we have our application.
And the first object here
that we're going to look at is
just a standard Cocoa button.
It says Apple on it.
And when I press it,
the press count increments.
Next is a standard NS button that
has an up image and a down image.
Again, this is just a standard control.
Next we have our custom button.
And this we created because we
wanted more functionality than the
standard button could provide us.
In this case we wanted to
have a highlight state so that
when I hover my mouse over the
button it changes highlight.
And it also has the up
image and the down image.
Then the core text arc.
The multi-line, multi-column text field.
And finally,
our custom stepper with custom animation.
So the first thing we're
going to want to do is take a
look at these with voiceover.
So let's turn on VoiceOver now and
navigate through and see what we hear.
VoiceOver on accessibility
UI examples copy.
Press count two.
Apple button.
Press Apple button.
So we see here I was able
to navigate to the standard
control and use it just fine.
This is a really important point.
For this standard button,
I literally needed to do no
work to make it accessible.
This is where we're continuing to
work hard to make your lives easy.
When you make a standard button
like this with a standard label,
it's fully accessible
right out of the box.
And as I navigated there,
I landed on that label
that said press count.
That's a standard NS text field.
So again,
fully accessible right out of the box.
You need to do zero work for those.
Let's look at the next example where
I have a button that's just an image.
And as button with image,
press count for button.
So here, VoiceOver just says button,
because that's all of the
information that we have.
We don't have any other information
other than this is a button.
So since this is a
standard Cocoa control,
this one's really, really simple to fix,
and we can do it right now.
VoiceOver off.
If we launch the project in Xcode,
right here I have the nib loaded.
If I click on the button and
look at the identity inspector,
Under here you see accessibility
identity and I can enter a
description right in here.
So I'm going to type in Apple,
save and run my project.
And now let's look at
this again with VoiceOver.
VoiceOver on.
Accessibility.
Press count.
Zero.
Button.
: Something went wrong.
Let's try that again.
VoiceOver on.
Press count zero.
Apple button.
There we go.
So we now land on the button.
It says Apple button.
Really, really simple.
Just a quick change in the nib.
So let's look at the next case,
our custom button.
Custom button.
Press count zero.
Apple button.
Close.
Voice over off.
Sorry, that wasn't supposed to work yet.
VoiceOver on accessibility UI exam.
Let's look at the custom button now
before I run the example that has
all the accessibility work done.
Press count zero.
An example of a custom.
So here,
VoiceOver skipped right over the button.
VoiceOver didn't even land on it.
VoiceOver knows nothing about it.
And this is because there's
no accessibility information
for VoiceOver to get to.
This is also because right
now it's reporting that it
is ignored by accessibility.
Let's look at the custom arc.
Core text arc.
An example of table.
So again, I can navigate around it,
but I can't actually land on the text.
Our multi-column sample.
Core text columns.
An example of a Zen app table.
I can navigate around it,
but I can't land on it.
I'm sure you can guess what
will happen with the stepper,
I'll be able to navigate around
it but I can't land on it.
This is because none of the
accessibility information is
there for VoiceOver to get to.
This is also the point at which a
lot of developers feel frustrated.
They feel that VoiceOver can't get to
any of their UI and it's hopeless and
they might as well not do anything.
You'll see in a little bit that
it's actually really simple.
Just by saying that accessibility
is not ignored for your view,
you're going to let VoiceOver land on it.
And then you're just going to need to
implement a few methods to provide a
great accessibility user experience.
VoiceOver off.
So let's start by looking at how we're
going to make a button fully accessible.
Well, we're going to follow our
recipe that we outlined earlier.
We're first going to
subclass appropriately,
figure out which attributes
we need to implement,
implement those attributes,
and finally test.
Now, for the purposes of demonstration,
if I had subclassed from
NSButton and NSButtonCell,
I could have done all of this
work right in Interface Builder.
So it wouldn't really
have made much of a demo.
We also learned that a lot of developers
are dealing with some legacy code,
some code that perhaps was written
quickly to meet a deadline.
So you don't always
subclass appropriately,
although you should.
In the real world,
it doesn't always happen.
So for demonstration purposes,
we're going to skip that step and
just look at what would happen
if we had an NS button that was
-- we created our own button that
was a direct subclass of NS view.
So first we're going to refer to
our documentation and figure out
all of the attributes that we need
to provide and the one action,
the AXPress action.
Now,
as long as you remember to call super,
NSView is going to provide
much of this for you.
We're going to give you as much
accessibility information as we can,
and you're only going to
need to provide the role,
the description, and the AXPress action.
So really simple when we
start stepping through it and
looking at what accessibility
we actually need to implement.
So how do we implement these three things
now at the NS Accessibility Protocol?
Well, first, as always,
remember to return that your element
is not ignored by accessibility.
Really,
really important to do and will save
you hours of frustrating debugging time.
: We're then going to report
which attributes we support.
There's a little bit of code here,
but it's pretty simple
and straightforward.
We always want to call super.
In this method, we're going to figure out
what attribute super supports.
We're going to get that array back.
Build up an array of attributes
that we want to support,
in this case,
the role in the description.
: We're going to add the attributes
we want to support to the attributes
that super supports and we want
to make sure we don't create
any duplicates in that array.
So really simple and straightforward,
we get the array from super,
we add our attributes to it and make
sure not to create any duplicates.
Then once we've reported
which attributes we support,
we need to provide a way
to get at those attributes.
We're going to do this with
accessibility attribute value.
This method will take in an
attribute and return an object
with that attribute's value.
So first, when we're asked for
the role in this case,
we're going to return
that this is a button.
When asked for the description,
we're going to return a human
readable string that is the
description of this button,
in this case, Apple.
It's important to note here that this
is also localized because we want this
to work in multiple countries as well.
Finally, and as always,
don't forget to call super.
This is really important because
we're going to respond to things
like the position on the screen
or the bounds of this element.
So if you forget to do this,
a lot of the accessibility won't work.
We're then going to need
to support the action.
And supporting actions is just
like supporting attributes.
We're going to return an array
of actions that we support.
Again, just like attributes and just
like any accessibility method,
we always want to call super.
So in this case,
we're going to figure out which actions
our super class supports and then add
the AX press action to that array,
assuming it doesn't already include it.
So one tip here that you might want
to keep in mind is whenever you write
one of these accessibility methods,
your first line of code should
probably be a line of code
that calls your super class,
because that line almost certainly
needs to be in your method somewhere.
Just like responding to attributes,
we're going to need
to respond to actions.
We're going to need to provide
a way to perform an action.
So,
When we're asked to
perform the press action,
we're going to perform
our own internal press.
Any other actions that we're asked to do,
we're going to let Super handle them.
: So really simple and straightforward.
There were just a few methods,
a few lines of code,
and as we'll see later,
now our button -- actually, in this case,
as we already saw,
once we implement this accessibility,
our button is fully accessible.
But what about our text field?
I'll show you the text field is
a little bit more complicated.
Again, if we look up the attributes that
are required for a text field,
we get this list of about
12 or 15 attributes.
NSVUE is going to provide
most of these for us.
So NSVUE does a lot of the heavy lifting.
We're now down to this
list of seven attributes.
And most of these now are things
that we're going to need to do.
But our static text field
doesn't support selection.
It doesn't support keyboard navigation.
So since it's just a
standard static text field,
we don't need to support
this selection information.
So now we're just down to
four simple attributes.
We just need to implement the role,
the value, the number of characters,
and the visible character range.
So again, at first it seemed like an
overwhelming amount of information,
but when we break it down and
walk through it with our recipe,
it's really not that much
information that we need to provide.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, we're going to use the same API,
the same process as before.
First, as always,
make sure to return no that your
object is not ignored by accessibility.
Then we're going to report
which attributes we support.
This is the same exact format
as we saw in the button case.
In this case,
we're just going to add the role, value,
number of characters,
and visible character range to the
list of attributes that we support.
Now,
how about actually implementing them?
Well, we only have one more attribute,
but it's still pretty simple.
First, when we're asked for the role,
we're going to return this
as a static text area.
When asked for the value,
we're going to return the value
that we're displaying on screen.
This is just the string that
we're showing in the curved text.
When asked for the number of characters,
surprisingly,
we return the number of characters.
If you note,
this method always returns an ID.
So you want to make sure that
you're always encapsulating
your return value in an object.
In this case,
we're encapsulating the number
of characters in an NSNumber.
Finally, the visible character range.
In this case, we know that our entire
string is visible on screen,
so we're just going to return a range
from zero to the length of the string.
And we're going to stuff
that in an NSValue so that we
can return it as an object.
Finally, as always,
don't forget to call Super so
that we can do some work for you.
You don't want to be implementing
all of the extra accessibility
methods if you don't have to.
So there's only one
extra attribute -- sorry,
two extra attributes on top of an
NS button that we needed to implement.
And as you'll see,
that now made our completely inaccessible
text field become a completely accessible
text field that a voiceover user
can navigate and get to the text of.
And it doesn't take that much work.
And assuming that you're subclassing
appropriately in your own project,
you're probably only going to
need to do this in a few places.
And now all of a sudden all
of your custom text fields
are going to be accessible.
So next,
as we're increasing in difficulty,
we're going to look at a multi-line,
multi-column text field.
This is a great example of a text
field that you might see in an e-book
reader or a magazine reader or an
application that's displaying a lot of
text on screen at one point in time.
Now,
we could implement this exactly the same
way we did with a single line text field.
We could implement the role, the value,
the number of characters,
and the visible character range.
And that would be okay.
That accessibility would work.
The problem is that now a voiceover
user is going to land on that,
and they're going to hear the
entire string all at once.
So just like there's
good UI and a better UI,
there's good accessibility and
there's better accessibility.
In this case,
we want to provide better accessibility.
We want to provide accessibility
where the voiceover can navigate line
by line or character by character,
paragraph by paragraph,
and really interact with the text,
be able to reread sentences or
pronounce specific words phonetically
so that a user knows how to spell them.
So just like there's
good UI and a better UI,
there's good accessibility,
and there's better accessibility.
In this case,
we want to provide better accessibility.
We want to provide accessibility
where the voiceover can navigate line
by line or character by character,
paragraph by paragraph,
and really interact with the text,
be able to reread sentences or
pronounce specific words phonetically
so that a user knows how to spell them.
so that a user knows how to spell
some more complicated words.
To do this, we're going to implement a
few parameterized attributes.
The attributes that we're going
to implement are string for range,
attributed string for range,
line for index, range for line,
and bounds for range.
And these six attributes are kind of
the secret sauce that are going to
allow VoiceOver to navigate line by line
in a text field with multiple lines.
So, we just already saw how you
would implement the accessibility
for a single line text field.
We're going to do all of
that same accessibility for
the multi-line text field.
And let's just jump right into
what we now need to do for
the parameterized attributes.
Well, just like regular attributes,
we're going to need to return our
array of all the parameterized
attributes that we support.
First, we're going to call super,
figure out what parameterized
attributes super supports,
build up an array of all
the parameterized attributes
that we want to support,
and then merge the two arrays,
making sure that we don't
create any duplicates.
So then what about responding
to these attributes?
We're asked for a parameterized
attribute and we're given a parameter.
The first one, string for range,
we're passed an NS value that
contains an NS range and we're going
to call our own internal method that
returns a string for that range.
Now, one thing that's important to note
for parameterized value for -- sorry,
accessibility attribute
value for parameter is that
We guarantee the parameter
is going to be an object.
We don't guarantee what
type it's going to be.
You always want to make sure to
type check the input parameter and
make sure it's the type you expect.
Otherwise you can run into big problems
if you start passing string methods
into something that's an NS value.
In this case we're expecting an NS value.
We first made sure it was an NS value
and then we got our range out of it.
So, pretty much the same code for
attributed string for range.
When we're asked for the
attributed string for range,
we type check our input value,
we extract the range
from the input value,
and then we call our own internal
method that just gets the
attributed string for that range.
: So, the range for line -- sorry,
line for index, given an index, again,
which comes in as an NS value.
We're going to extract the index out and
then call our own internal method that's
going to return a number for that line.
And just as we saw before,
we're going to bottle this up
in an NSNumber so that it can be
returned through that IPC layer.
Range for line works
pretty much the same way.
We're going to extract the line
number from the input parameter.
We're going to call our own
internal method to figure
out the range for that line.
And finally, we're going to bottle up the
return value in an NS value so
that we can return an object.
: Balance for range is a
really important one as well.
Balance for range is what
enables VoiceOver to draw that
VoiceOver cursor on screen correctly.
This is incredibly important for
collaboration so that users can
work together and a sighted user
can see where a VoiceOver user
is currently located on screen.
So bounds for range takes an NS value,
we extract the NS value,
we call our own internal
method to get the bounds,
and then we bottle that back up
in an NS value and return it.
And as always with all of our methods,
we always make sure to call super.
Really, really important again because
we also will respond to some
parameterized attributes for you.
That's all there is to it.
There's a little bit of code,
a little bit more code
than the previous example.
But one thing to keep in mind is that
the amount of code here that we needed to
do for accessibility pales in comparison
to the amount of code I needed to write
to get this to draw and screen this way.
Whenever you are looking at
drawing something custom,
doing your own drawing routines,
doing your own text layout,
you always have to do more work
to do that drawing initially.
When you do that extra work,
you will always have to do a little
bit more accessibility work as well.
This you should take into account
when you are deciding if you
should use custom controls or
use existing app kit controls.
Finally,
we're going to look at a custom stepper.
In this case, it's a volume stepper.
It increments and decrements the volume.
And in accessibility,
we refer to a stepper as an incrementer.
So we're going to look up the
accessibility information that's
needed for an incrementer.
So, just like our previous examples,
we have quite a bit of information
that we need to provide.
But as always, as long as we call super,
NSVU is going to provide as much
of that information as it can.
So we're down to just a
handful of attributes.
We need to provide the role.
We need to provide whether it's enabled,
the description, the children,
the increment button,
and the decrement button.
So the first time here, you see children.
Children is an interesting one, right?
We haven't seen that yet.
Just like there's a
structure of your views,
you have a super view that has sub views,
accessibility has a structure.
Every object can have
accessibility children.
In this case, an incrementer has to have
It has to have a child that's an
increment button and a decrement button.
: This is a problem for us because
in this case we don't have children.
We just have one view that's
drawing both of these buttons.
So, what are we to do?
Well, we're going to create what
we call faux UI elements.
This is an important concept in
the accessibility protocol that
every object that's represented
in the accessibility information,
every piece of UI that's
represented to accessibility has
to have an object backing it.
It has to be an object to respond
to the methods and report all of
the accessibility information.
In this case,
we've distributed a really great class
called the Faux UI Element class.
And this class is just meant
to bottle up that information.
It's just a really lightweight object
that responds to accessibility requests.
Here, this is going to be my own internal
method for building up my fake children.
I'm going to create a Faux UI Element for
my up button and a Faux UI Element for
my down button and return that array.
There is a little bit more involved in
reporting attributes on FOA UI elements,
but you'll be able to take a
look at that in the example.
So now how do we provide the rest
of the accessibility for this bot?
Well, as always, we need to start with
accessibility as ignored.
Make sure that we return
that we're not ignored.
For the accessibility attributes,
this is the same method we used before.
We're going to add the attributes
that we want to support into the array
of attributes that Super supports,
making sure not to create any duplicates.
And now,
how do we report these attributes?
Well, first, when asked for the role,
we're going to return that
this is an incrementer.
When asked for the children,
we're going to turn the array of
full UI elements that we built up.
When asked for the increment button,
we're going to return the first
child because we know that we put
the up button in position zero.
And for the decrement button,
we know that we put the
down button in position one.
For description,
we're going to return the human readable
localized string for this incrementer.
In this case,
it's our volume incrementer.
And finally, as always,
we're going to make sure to call Super.
Super is going to handle
a lot of the other things,
and by calling it,
we take advantage of all of that work.
We also saw that there were two
actions we needed to report.
So we're going to need to add
the increment and the decrement
action into the array of actions
that our superclass supports.
And finally, we're going to need to be
able to perform those actions.
So when asked to perform
the increment action,
we call our own internal
method to perform an increment.
And when asked to perform
the decrement action,
we perform our own internal
method to perform the decrement.
That's all there is to it.
Again, there was a little bit more code,
but this is a pretty complex example.
We were creating our own fake elements
just to support accessibility here.
This example can be extrapolated.
You can make anything you can draw
on the screen fully accessible.
A game that was done entirely in
OpenGL could use the same technique,
the same foe UI elements and
make the entire user interface
accessible for someone who can't see.
So let's take a look at our app now
that it's finished with all of that
accessibility information in it.
So here's our app.
And first we're going to
start with the custom button.
I'm going to turn on voiceover
and navigate to that button.
Voiceover on.
Press count zero.
Apple button.
Press Apple button.
So you see now it's fully accessible.
Next, the Cortex Arc.
Cortex Arc.
Hello, world.
Fully accessible again.
The voiceover cursor draws
correctly around the text.
We have the Cortex multi-column view.
Cortex columns.
Text, Apple designs Macs.
Interact with text, Apple designs Macs.
The best personal computers in the world,
along with OS X, iLife, iWork,
and professional software.
Apple leads the digital music revolution.
So you see, voiceover now can go through
and read each sentence.
But I can also navigate line
by line or word by word.
Online store.
It's iPods.
And app music revolution.
Apple lead digital.
The leads.
Apple.
Or even character by character.
P-P-P-L-E.
So really, really powerful now with that
little bit of extra effort.
We've created great user experience
for a user using something like an
electronic textbook or a text messaging
application that has a lot of text that
a voiceover user needs to get through.
Finally, our custom stepper,
or as we call it in the
accessibility world,
an incrementer.
Custom stepper.
Volume stepper.
Interact with stepper.
Stop interacting with stepper.
Interact.
Volume incrementing.
Volume decrementing.
So now I can interact with the stepper.
I can control it.
I can increment the volume
and decrement the volume.
So really, really powerful now,
a view that was entirely in OpenGL.
One view drew multiple controls.
And I was able to make it fully
accessible with VoiceOver with
just a handful of code.
So as I said, this demo code is available
for you on the WWDC website.
And it's a great example of some UI.
There are also some bonus
examples in the code.
If you download it,
you'll be able to take a look at.
And I'm sure right now you're
thinking about a lot of your UI,
how are you going to make it accessible,
and what you need to do.
And Apple has a lot of
great resources for you.
One great starting point is the
accessibility web page on Apple.com.
It's Apple.com/accessibility.
This web page is a great starting
point because it provides links
to the developer information,
it provides links to mailing lists,
and it shows all of the accessible
products that Apple works on.
I also have some great
contact information here,
including our application
technology evangelist,
the developer mailing list,
and the accessibility mailing list,
which are all great resources to ask
your accessibility related questions to.
So in summary,
we talked about a lot today.
We talked about the various
technologies that Apple works on,
how important accessibility is to us,
how important we feel
accessibility should be to you.
We looked at some of the APIs and
how to implement accessibility.
And we did a few case studies,
which do two things.
They provide specific examples
on how to make some specific
pieces of UI accessible.
But they also highlight that pretty
much anything you can dream up,
our API can support.
Any pixel you can render on the screen,
we can make accessible with our API.
And so thinking about custom controls,
I don't want you to stop at
the four examples I gave you,
but use those as a starting
point for thinking about how you
can make your API accessible.
you might make other
custom controls accessible.
And I want to come back to the
words that Tim said yesterday,
that we have the opportunity
to dramatically and
fundamentally change the world.
I truly believe that and I really hope
you can help us change the world by
helping to make your software accessible.
Thank you very much for your
time and I hope you have a
great rest of the week at WWDC.